Cleanup Play Styles (#3675)
ppy/osu-wiki: wiki/Play_Styles/en.md

# Play styles

This page will detail the various ways in which players can choose to play in their respective game modes.

## ![](/wiki/shared/mode/osu.png) osu!

### Mouse-only

Mouse-only was once the *only* way to play osu! until other playing methods were supported over time.

> Also known as *pure-mouse*, mouse-only players navigate the in-game cursor with a mouse as well as tap beats, follow sliders, and spin spinners by only clicking the left/right mouse buttons.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also known as *pure-mouse*, mouse-only players navigate the in-game cursor with a mouse while tapping beats, following sliders, and spinning spinners with only clicking the left and right mouse buttons.
```

Author: Why remove the "and" and replce "by" with "with"?

The play style is widely considered to be the hardest method to play with and mouse-only players who rank high in the overall rankings are usually greatly respected by the community.

*Note: The key overlay shows left/right click as `M1` and `M2`.*

> ### Dual Mouse

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Dual mouse
```

> Dual Mouse is a play style in which a player has a mouse in each hand; using one mouse to tap and another mouse to move the in-game cursor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dual mouse is a play style in which a player has a mouse in each hand; using one mouse to tap and another mouse to move the in-game cursor.
```

> The play style used to be considered a joke play style to most players until May 2013 when Canadian player ![](/wiki/shared/flag/CA.gif "Canada") [Azer](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2155578) starting getting top scores on highly-respected maps such as [Hatsune Miku - With a Dance Number (val0108)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/29691) and [The Quick Brown Fox - The Big Black (Blue Dragon)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/41823) whilst playing with dual mice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The play style used to be considered a joke play style to most players until May 2013 when Canadian player ![](/wiki/shared/flag/CA.gif "Canada") [Azer](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2155578) starting getting top scores on highly-respected maps such as [Hatsune Miku - With a Dance Number (val0108)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/29691) and [The Quick Brown Fox - The Big Black (Blue Dragon)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/41823) whilst playing with two mice.
```

> *Note: It is also common for Dual Mouse players to tape the mouse used for clicking to the desk.*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Note: It is also common for dual mouse players to tape the mouse used for clicking to the desk.*
```

> ### Mouse + Keyboard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Mouse and keyboard
```

> Mouse + Keyboard is the most popular play style for osu! because it uses basic computer hardware that most users have access to and puts less strain the hand used for holding the mouse.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mouse and keyboard is the most popular play style for osu! because it uses the most basic computer peripherals and puts less strain on the hand used for holding the mouse.
```

Author: Why remove the "and"?

> Mouse + Keyboard players play in almost exactly the same way as mouse-only players with the only difference being that two keyboard keys (`Z` and `X` by default) are used to tap instead of the mouse itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mouse and keyboard players play in almost exactly the same way as mouse-only players with the only difference being that two keyboard keys (`Z` and `X` by default) are used to tap instead of the mouse itself.
```

Author: why remove all these "and"s?

Some players use only the keyboard to tap while others only switch to the keyboard when streaming (the act of tapping a very fast string of hit objects in rapid succession) and use the mouse to click for everything else.

*Note: The key overlay shows keyboard presses as `K1` and `K2`.*

> ### Tablet tap (or Tablet-only)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Tablet-only
```
probably keep it the same as the mouse only

![](/wiki/shared/Osu!tablet.jpg "osu!tablet")

> *Notice: This play style requires the use of a graphics tablet (Digitizer).*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Notice: This play style requires the use of a graphics tablet (digitizer).*
```

Tablet-only players hover a tablet pen over a graphics tablet to navigate the in-game cursor and only tap beats by tapping the pen onto the surface of the graphics tablet itself.

*Note: The input overlay will show all tablet taps as `M1`.*

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

#### Tapx

```

Streaming with only one tapping input is widely regarded in the community to be nearly impossible at high BPM. Thus, to stream as a Tablet-only player, a player should alternate between tapping their pen onto the tablet and pressing one assigned secondary key (usually a tablet or keyboard key). This method is sometimes referred to as *tapx*.

*Note: Since the pen tap was considered as `M1`, only the secondary tap button will work, and `X` is usually the default secondary tap button.*

> ### Tablet + Keyboard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Tablet and keyboard
```

> *Notice: This play style requires the use of a graphics tablet (Digitizer).*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Notice: This play style requires the use of a graphics tablet (digitizer).*
```

> Tablet + Keyboard is a popular play style among many passionate, competitive, and top players.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tablet and keyboard is a popular play style among many passionate, competitive, and top players.
```

> Tablet + Keyboard players "hover" and/or "drag" a tablet pen to navigate the in-game cursor and tap beats using the keyboard or the tablet buttons.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tablet and keyboard players "hover" or "drag" a tablet pen to navigate the in-game cursor and tap beats using the keyboard or the tablet buttons.
```

> Much like Mouse + Keyboard, some players also use only the tablet pen to tap while others will switch to keyboard when streaming.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Much like mouse and keyboard, some players also use only the tablet pen to tap while others will switch to keyboard when streaming.
```

### Touchscreen

This play style uses a touch-enabled monitor, laptop screen, or tablet to navigate the in-game cursor and tap hit objects.

To navigate the in-game cursor, touchscreen players touch the screen of their device with a tablet pen or their finger at the precise location in which they want the cursor to be at. This results in the cursor to appear as if it is "jumping" to the touched location.

When a touchscreen player taps the screen, their device will simultaneously move the cursor to that point, as well as send a mouse input. Thus, to tap beats, follow sliders, and spin spinners, touchscreen players will only touch hit objects when they want the hit object to be hit.

> This play style may feel slightly similar to playing [osu!stream](/wiki/osu!stream) due to the act of touching the screen directly rather than by hardware support (e.g., mouse, graphics tablet).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This play style may feel similar to playing [osu!stream](/wiki/osu!stream) due to the act of touching the screen directly rather than moving a cursor.
```

*Note: The key overlay shows touch input as `M1`.*

> ### Touchscreen + Keyboard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Touchscreen and keyboard
```

> Touchscreen + Keyboard is a play style uses a keyboard for key inputs, and touchscreen device of some sort to navigate the in-game cursor; it is a play style most often adopted by touchscreen players who cannot perform streams using only the touchscreen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Touchscreen and keyboard is a play style uses a keyboard for key inputs, and touchscreen device of some sort to navigate the in-game cursor; it is a play style most often adopted by touchscreen players who cannot perform streams using only the touchscreen.
```

- **Gamepad:** Like the joystick, this method is one that is more considered to be a creative, and out-of-the-box way to play osu!. Depending on the brand of controller, this play style could see a player using a built-in trackpad, control/analog stick, or D-Pad to control the in-game cursor. Some players may find it more comfortable to use buttons already on the controller itself to tap beats, or through a regular keyboard.

## ![](/wiki/shared/mode/taiko.png) osu!taiko

### Keyboard

Keyboard was once the *only* way to play osu!taiko until other playing methods were supported over time.

Simply, the player would press the assigned keyboard keys to hit the drum parts. By default, `X`/`C` were for the drum center (Red) and `Z`/`V` were for the drum rim (Blue).

There are two main styles of setting the keys placement in the keyboard: KDDK (Taiko default, or BRRB) or DDKK/KKDD (or RRBB/BBRR). The letters represent the placement of the drum rim or drum center (e.eg. K in KDDK for drum rim, and D for the drum center).

> *Note For key-binding, the default is `Z` `X` `C` `V` (KDDK, or BRRB).*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Note: For key-binding, the default is `Z` `X` `C` `V` (KDDK, or BRRB).*
```

## ![](/wiki/shared/mode/catch.png) osu!catch

### Keyboard

A keyboard is the most commonly used and default play style for osu!catch.

To play with a keyboard, players press the left/right `<-`/`->` arrow keys to move the catcher, and can also hold down `leftShift` to trigger the *Dash!* effect.

It is possible to edit the keys used; some players enjoy `A`/`D` for movement and `Spacebar`/`rightShift` for *Dash!* effect.

The key overlay shows `<-`/`->` arrow keys input as `L`/`R` respectively and `leftShift` as `D` by default.

#### Keyboard + Mouse

Keyboard + Mouse is a minor alternative play style of Keyboard, in which players trigger the *Dash!* effect by using mouse clicks instead. Though some players prefer the reverse and prefer to control the left and right movements by using the left/right mouse buttons and activate dashes with the keyboard.

> *Note: Depending on the model of mouse, some players may prefer to control all movements and controls of the catcher soley through buttons on the mouse. Usually using a Mouse Button 4 or 5 to dash.*

Author: There was no section for mouse-only and I didn't think it needed one because it's such a small bit of a trivia that couldn't stand as an entire section.

### Joystick

Using a joystick to control the catcher is a play style for players who are used to pixel-old arcade cabinets' control scheme.

> Players move the head of the joystick and press the face button/trigger/keyboard key to trigger the *Dash!* effect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Players move the head of the joystick and press the face button, trigger, or keyboard key to dash.
```

### Gamepad

> Using a gamepad to control the catcher is a play style for players who prefer the feeling of a particular D-Pad or control stick as opposed to a keyboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using a gamepad to control the catcher is a play style for players who prefer the feeling of a particular D-pad or control stick as opposed to a keyboard.
```

> To move the catcher left and right, some players prefer to press the left/right arrows on their gamepad's D-Pad to move, while others prefer to use control stick directions. Though, due to a gamepad's wide variety of buttons, players can use triggers, bumpers, or other face buttons to move the  catcher.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To move the catcher left and right, some players prefer to press the left/right arrows on their gamepad's D-pad to move, while others prefer to use control stick directions. Though, due to a gamepad's wide variety of buttons, players can use triggers, bumpers, or other face buttons to move the  catcher.
```

> To trigger the *Dash!* effect, many players use one of the face buttons on their gamepad. Though, some players prefer to use triggers, bumpers, or control sticks. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To dash, many players use one of the face buttons on their gamepad. Though, some players prefer to use triggers, bumpers, or control sticks. 
```

## ![](/wiki/shared/mode/mania.png) osu!mania

### Keyboard

[External guide for Mechanical Keyboard](http://www.daskeyboard.com/blog/mechanical-keyboard-guide/)

Keyboard was once the *only* way to play osu!mania until other play methods was supported over time.

To play with a keyboard, players would press down the keys respective to their placement on the in-game keyboard. By default these keys are DFJK. The advantage of this play-style is that it can accommodate basically all the Keys setting.

> ### DJMAX/O2Jam/Beatmania IIDX/etc. arcade controller

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Arcade controller
```

> These types of arcade controllers are a play-style tuned for seasoned veterans at conveyor-type rhythm games.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Arcade controllers from other rhythm games such as DJMAX, O2Jam, Beatmania IIDX, etc. are a play-style tuned for seasoned veterans at conveyor-type rhythm games.
```

> *Note: Since the use of 8 Keys requires the mapper's decision or the use of Game Modifiers, most players owning these arcade controllers can handle up to 7 Keys (max default) and 1 special.*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Note: Since the use of 8 Keys requires the mapper's decision or the use of game modifiers, most players owning these arcade controllers can handle up to 7 keys (max default) and 1 special.*
```

> ### Dance Pad

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Dance pad
```

A major drawback with using a dance pad is that it can be hard to hit multiple keys at once. To hit 4 notes on a DDR pad, you would either have to use your hands along with your feet to hit them, or position your feet on 2 panels at once.

Another drawback is that osu!mania maps may have been designed without dance game chart flow in mind, limiting the amount of charts you can (comfortably) dance to. Dance games are often charted with dancing chart flow. One big rule of charting for a dance game like DDR is mostly being able to switch feet for every note (with some exceptions). Since some osu!mania maps don't really follow those rules, which can make it really awkward to play a lot of maps on a dance pad.

### Other styles

- **Guitar/Drum set**(5/6K): The default controller for the guitar-themed ([Guitar Hero](https://wikipedia.org/wiki/Guitar_Hero))/drum-themed([Drummania](https://wikipedia.org/wiki/Drum_Mania)) rhythm game. Players stream on their guitar/hit the drum or cymbals to input commands. Drum players have a disadvantage compared to guitar players because they can only input two commands at a time without a special kick pedal.

> - **Para Para controller**(5K): This is the default controller for [Para Para Paradise](https://wikipedia.org/wiki/Para_Para_Paradise) series. Players move their arms, elbows and hands straight above the proximity sensors to input commands based on hand position through the proximity sensors. The drawback is the sensitivy of the input receiver and the player's physical limitation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Para Para controller**(5K): This is the default controller for [Para Para Paradise](https://wikipedia.org/wiki/Para_Para_Paradise) series. Players move their arms, elbows and hands straight above the proximity sensors to input commands based on hand position through the proximity sensors. The drawback is the sensitivity of the input receiver and the player's physical limitation.
```
